so one of the activities that I'm
personally involved with is called knock
school students were interested in
linguistics and computational
linguistics and many of the poems that
we use in this class are related to
Locke Locke so I want to give you an
idea what it stands for and what it
covers
so NACO is a competition in linguistics
but it covers all so many computational
linguistics poems it has existed since
2007 and it usually in every year about
2,000 students in the United States and
Canada participate and the top eight of
them go to the international level and
here I have listed some of the ones who
did the most well at the international
level people like Adam hesterberg
Rebecca Jacobs and Alex Wade's all won
many gold medals at the international
level there are many other countries
that do really well in the international
competition places like Russia in the
United Kingdom the Netherlands Poland
Bulgaria South Korea and in recent years
Canada and China the International
contest started in about 2003 the most
recent ones were in Manchester in
England last year in Beijing most
recently and then the next one will be
in Bulgaria in 2015 the website for the
international competition is shown here
and as you can see it is related to some
other high school competitions such as
the math and physics and chemistry and
biology competitions this gives some of
the points that you can see on Macklowe
some of them are what we call
traditional problems they are about
trying to understand a foreign language
and specifically some linguistic
phenomenon in that language that you
have not seen before so I'm just going
to go through those examples very
quickly this is about ancient Greek the
problem was a donkey in every house from
2007 he's one about Japanese noun
compounds from 2008 he is one about
aligning texts from two different
languages in this case Swedish and
Norwegian from 2009 this is one about a
writing system for the blind in Japan
called tangi
you have to figure out how those
characters which are similar to Braille
in English are used this is a more
computational example about using finite
state automata to understand how words
in the language called the hoto casts
from the coast of New Guinea are formed
he is one about writing systems
specifically people how to figure out
how the armenian script works by looking
at the map and the station names some of
those names are given in english so you
can use your logical thinking to figure
out where they appear on the map and
then once you have figured out where
they appear on the map you have to
figure out what the different symbols
mean and use those symbols to figure out
the names of the remaining stations over
the years there have been more than 100
paul is used in Nakhla i have picked
here some of the most interesting
computational poles that you can use to
challenge yourselves as part of this
class so this was my brief introduction
to Lachlan later in this class we're
going to look at some of the specific
problems that were used in this
competition and I would like to use this
opportunity to encourage people to
submit problems for future years